<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" dir="ltr">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title></title>
  </head>
  <body>
  For this assignment, I reviewed the UNCG Libraries website to understand its components and rationale for those components.

The UNC website (library.uncg.edu) is composed of the following:
UNCG logo with tagline “Find your way here”
Search bar on top right corner for all of UNCG
External UNCG links for quick navigation to the non-Library pages
Library search area and button with options for all resources, the catalog, articles, DVDs, and UNCG Library’s website
Alternatively, a link to Advanced Search
A link to databases
A link to a list of journals
A link to research guides by subject
A link to course reserves
A link to chat with a librarian
Help
How do I (FAQ)
General library information including links to the collections, services, spaces, and about the library
An area saying whether or not the library is currently open or closed
A picture of the library
A listing of links to services and technology available in Jackson Library such as laptops
An offset button link to equipment and room reservation
A “spotlight” block with link
A block with social media links and icons, including a link to a document on the library’s digitization priorities
A block with news and events links
A section with additional links in smaller font to information such as borrowing material, online book renewal, staff director, Welcome from the Dean, and more
A footer with address and contact info, the UNG logo again, then to the right of that small social media icons and a small logo for the UNC system, as well as copyright for the website.

The primary task the website is designed to do is help students and staff locate resources and materials for studies in an efficient, effective manner.  However, the website is available for public browsing as well.  It is meant to be the first interface for all things library.

The components of the website help the user achieve this task because of how well the components are laid out on the website.  The top information has a deep blue background, and is general information about UNCG, not library-specific.  Below that, there’s a contrasting red area with the search bar, above which “University Libraries” is written.  The user knows implicitly that the search bar “belongs to” the university library, as opposed to a search bar just about the University itself.  There is a secondary red boxy area just to the right of this with alternative ways to get help, such as chat with a librarian.  Below this area, the webpage has a picture of the library as well as “Available in Jackson Library” so that the user has a secondary confirmation that they are in the correct place, and not a general University site.  This is followed by more general library information, then the bottom of the site includes a footer with the library address.

In regards to the search box, the user has several options that are clickable, rather than a drop-down menu, so it is easy to see “how” the search will be run.  By default, the “tab” selected is All, meaning that all of the proceeding tabs will be searched with whatever search term the user enters.  However, the user has a choice here to choose a different tab, such as Catalog, Articles, DVDs…  This choice may be very efficient to the user, depending on how well the user knows what they are looking for. If the user doesn’t want to start with a search, the user can instead go straight to databases, a list of Journals, see the research guides by subject, and course reserves.

All these choices in how to get to materials help the user get to the resources they need, and the layout facilitates this process efficiently and effectively.  The components of UNCG’s website, in my opinion, are highly user-friendly.
